:memo: Updated faas documentation (#776)
LivePersonInc/developers-community: pages/documents/DeveloperTools/FaaS/Developing/best-pratices.md

---
pagename: "Best Practices"
keywords:
sitesection: Documents
categoryname: "Developer Tools"
documentname: LivePerson Functions
subfoldername: Developing with FaaS
permalink: liveperson-functions-development-best-practices.html
indicator: both
redirect_from:
  - function-as-a-service-developing-with-best-practices.html
---

> The following section will show some best practices for using the LivePerson Functions platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following section shows some best practices for using the LivePerson Functions platform.
```

    // Get clientId and clientSecret from secret storage
    const client_id = await secretClient.readSecret('clientId');
    const client_secret = await secretClient.readSecret('clientSecret');

    // Obtain the token from the authorization server
    const token = await hpptClient(authUrl, {
        method: 'POST',
        form: {
            client_id: client_id.value,
            client_secret: client_secret.value,
            grant_type: 'client_credentials'
        },
        json: true,
        simple: true,
        resolveWithFullResponse: false
    })

    // Perform request with token (type may change)
    const response = await httpClient(URL, {
      method: "GET", 
      headers: {
        'Authorization': `Bearer ${token}`,
      },
      simple: false,
      resolveWithFullResponse: true
    });
    
    callback(null, token);
  } catch (err) {
    callback(err, null)
  }
}
```

### Usage of Environment Variables

The Environment Variables are used to save configurations for a specific lambda. With this approach you can separate static variables from the code.

<div class="important">
  Do not save sensitive data in Environment Variables!

> </div>

Reviewer: mention that you need to redeploy a function for env changes to take effect

```javascript
async function lambda(input, callback) {
  const { Toolbelt } = require("lp-faas-toolbelt");
  const httpClient = Toolbelt.HTTPClient();

  try {
    const response = await httpClient(process.env['CUSTOMER_URL'], {
      method: "GET", 
      headers: {}, 
      simple: false,
      resolveWithFullResponse: true
    });
      
    const { statusCode, body } = response;
    if(statusCode === 200) {
      callback(null, process.env['SUCCESS_MESSAGE']);
    } else {
      callback(null, process.env['ERROR_MESSAGE']);
    }
  } catch (err) {
    callback(err, null)
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer: this is NOT the code example we agreed upon... :'( for real though, this is fine 👍

See [Environment Variables](liveperson-functions-development-overview.html#environment-variables) for more information about it. 

> ### Error handling in async functions

Reviewer: Could make sense to mention somewhere, that the catched errors probably should be handed into the callback as 2nd(?) parameter. I think it looks like this then: `callback(null, error)` but plz double check if it is the other way around

> If an async call has no correct error handling implemented the function will not end in the execution time and the error `Lambda Execution is taking too long` will be thrown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an async call inside of a LivePerson function has no proper error handling, it could be executed longer than the maximum execution time. In such a case a `Lambda Execution is taking too long` error will be thrown. Therefore proper error handling best practices as the following are vital.
```

For [then-catch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) promises it is necessary to have a `catch` at the end of a `then`.

```javascript
const myPromise =
  (new Promise(myExecutorFunc))
  .then(handleFulfilledA)
  .then(handleFulfilledB)
  .then(handleFulfilledC)
  .catch(handleRejectedAny);
```

For [async-await](https://developer.mozilla.org/de/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/await) a try-catch is necessary. 

```javascript
try {
  await myPromise();
} catch(error) {
  // handle error
} 
```

> ### Async/Await Functions

Reviewer: move this part above the Error handling part. else it is strange that you already talk about the async/await functionality before introducing it. Now that I think of it... maybe you should this on top of the page, because you are already using `async/await` in some code examples earlier

> It is possible to use the [async/await](https://developer.mozilla.org/de/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/await) functionality within the LivePerson Functions. It's important to wrap the await in a try/catch, otherwise the function will have some weird behavior and errors will not be catched and displayed correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to use the [async/await](https://developer.mozilla.org/de/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/await) functionality within LivePerson Functions. Proper error handling is important when using this, check the best practices HERE.
```

replace HERE with a link to the error handling chapter

  const URL = "https://www.liveperson.com";

  try {
    const response = await httpClient(URL, {
      method: "GET", // HTTP VERB
      headers: {}, // Your Headers
      simple: false, // IF true => Status Code != 2xx & 3xx will throw
      resolveWithFullResponse: true //IF true => Includes Status Code, Headers etc.
    });
      
    const { statusCode, body } = response;
    // Perform Action based on Status Code
    switch (statusCode) {
      case 200: 
        return callback(null, statusCode);
      // If not Whitelisted Proxy will reject with 403. Body contains also a message indicating that
      case 403:
        return callback(new Error("Domain is not whitelisted"), null);
      default:
        return callback(
          new Error(`Recieved unexpected status code ${statusCode}`)
        );
    }
  } catch (err) {
    callback(err, null)
  }
}
```

### Limitations of Timeouts

The usage of `setTimeout()` in LivePerson Functions must be handled with care. 
* Functions cannot exceed the runtime of **30 secconds**. The error `Lambda Execution is taking too long` will thrown.

> * If you execute multiple functions with a `setTimeout()` implemented, the event loop of the service will fill up and even functions with a lower execution time than 30 seconds will take longer and may reach the max. execution time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you execute multiple functions containing a `setTimeout()` call, the event loop of the service may fill up. Even functions with a lower execution time than 30 seconds could therefore take longer, may reach the execution time limit and fail. Because of this timeouts in general should be handled with care and it is encouraged to double check their need in any use case.
```
